# ETL-Project
National Parks Visitor Data

  In this project I decided to look into data on our national parks, originally I wanted to take the visitor use data from this current year and compare the numbers to the last several years to see if we could find any significant change this year due to the pandemic. I soon realized that my focus might be a bit broad for the timeline given for the project. There are 48 national parks in the US, not to mention the countless other national lands which all have data through the 2019 year. I was able to find a good set of data which gave an annual over view of visitor use statistics through the 12 months of 2019 which compiled all the national parks data into one file. Upon trying to find the 2020 data I had to pull data on each park individually, which then to further comlicate things was at times different than the 2019 data in my other files. As I started to sift through the data I realized I might have over shot the project goals. So I went back to my data source the national parks service website and explored the other data sets available and settled on the vistor use statisitcs for each national park and the overall data for vehicle traffic entering and exiting the park would make for a good starting database for a general overview of when the parks are busiet, and what time of year they tend to be less crowded which is useful when planning a trip to visit and enjoy the beautiful national parks spread across the US. 
 
  After importing the final two CSV files into my pandas dataframes I began to clean the data. The first thing I did after importing the files was realize that my data sets header row for the file was actually the 4th row due to the due to the way the header contained excess information on the source of the data set. So I adjusted my code to reflect the header as the 4th row which made the correct row the column names. I decided to set the index of the first data set to 'UnitCode' coulmn since the values are the same for that variable in each of the data sets. I then narrowed it to only the columns needed to give a solid over view of the park information and the traffic counts for each entryway to the park. There fore in my first data set "Traffic_Counts" some of the parks have several sets of data that have differing values for the 12 month period of 2019. For the visitor use data I droped all the duplicate columns since the data set loaded with all the coulumns twice, I selected the columns which contained the relavent data and removed a few of the extras describing the park since I had a common key so the extra data in the first dataframe would fill in the extra location information. 
  
  Despite the fact that I was able to find a a common key between my data sets I decided to use a non-relational database for the final porduct due to the differences in the number of entires per park. Since in order to join the datasets if wanted it would have been far more challeneging given the multiple entires for vehicle counts due to multiple park enterances. I also felt like this approach would be useful for adding further data to the database in the future as I was able to find sevearl further datasets which information that could be useful or informative when making a decision or just researching the various parks. I thought it would also be easier to add the addtional information for the 2020 year in the future since it would make the process of merging the data easier since it doesn't rely solely on having a similar key in order to expand the database. I also felt that this would allow for the addition of a wider variety of data, such as the GIS files for location, and creating maps from that data since the data set would not contain any common keys. 
  
  I decided to keep the final tables as they were in pandas before loading them into the MongoDB database in order to allow for an easy summary of the overall visitor use statistics in order to help plan a trip to the parks by having all the inforamtion concerning day use, visitors, and camping inforamation. Whereas the other more of the inforamtion on location of the parks such as state, region, type of park, name, and the data on vehicle entry to help individuals decided on which entry point is most popular or which entry points are open a various times of year since many are located in areas where winter weather can close down certain entrances to the parks. I thought the data tables would allow for easy expansion and could be a good starting point for deciding on further reasearch into the various aspects of park use and a simple overview of where, when and how popular the various national parks across the country are. 
